.TH GARFIELD-SNACK 1 "March 2018" "v0.3"
.SH NAME
garfield-snack \- Interact with the snack sales subsystem of Garfield
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "garfield-snack [" options "] <" mode "> [" mode-arguments "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR "garfield-snack " "can be used to search for, buy and get information on snacks"
in the Garfield snack database from the command line.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --user " user"
Database/Garfield user to connect as. By default, the username of the executing user is used.
.RI "When running with the " --pgpass " option, if the users home directory contains a " .pgpass " file"
usable for the connection, the credentials therein are used.
.TP
.BI --pass " password"
Database/Garfield password. If not supplied, the password is queried via the standard input.
.RI "When running with the " --pgpass " option, if the users home directory contains a " .pgpass " file"
usable for the connection, the credentials therein are used.
.TP
.BI --server " server"
.RB "Server name to use as database host. Default is " fsmi-db.fsmi.uni-karlsruhe.de
.TP
.BI --port " port"
.RB "Database port to be used. Default is " 5432
.TP
.BI --dbname " dbname"
.RB "Name of the Garfield database to use. Default is " garfield
.TP
.B --pgpass
.RI "If the users home directory contains a " .pgpass " file specifying credentials usable for the database"
connection, use those credentials. For documentation on the format of this file, see the postgresql documentation.
.TP
.B --verbose
Print background information on actions performed.
.TP
.B --version
Print tool version information and exit.
.SH MODES
.TP
.BI find " term"
.RI "Find all snacks containing " term " in their name. This will print " snackids " usable with the"
.BR "buy" " and  " info " modes."
.TP
.BI buy " snackid"
.RI "Buy the snack " snackid " with the connecting user's account."
.TP
.BI "buy -s" " term"
.RI "Search for snacks containing " term " in name or barcode, and, if the result list contains exactly one item,"
buy it as the connecting user. Can be used to buy snacks using a known barcode.
.TP
.BI "buy -u" " user " "" "snackid"
.RI "Buy a snack on the account of " user "."
.TP
.BI info " snackid"
.RI "Show extended snack information on snack " snackid "."
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to the projects issue tracker at https://github.com/kitinfo/garfield-shell/issues
.SH AUTHORS
 Jan "mpease" Duepmeier <me at mpease dot de>
 Fabian "cbdev" Stumpf <cb at cbcdn dot com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Project repository at https://github.com/kitinfo/garfield-shell/
