.TH GARFIELD-USER 1 "March 2018" "v0.3"
.SH NAME
garfield-user \- Interact with the user and accounting subsystem of Garfield
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "garfield-user [" options "] <" mode "> [" mode-arguments "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR "garfield-user " "can be used to gather and modify accounting information for Garfield snack accounts,"
including the snack sales history as well as deposits and withdrawals.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --user " user"
Database/Garfield user to connect as. By default, the username of the executing user is used.
.RI "When running with the " --pgpass " option, if the users home directory contains a " .pgpass " file"
usable for the connection, the credentials therein are used.
.TP
.BI --pass " password"
Database/Garfield password. If not supplied, the password is queried via the standard input.
.RI "When running with the " --pgpass " option, if the users home directory contains a " .pgpass " file"
usable for the connection, the credentials therein are used.
.TP
.BI --server " server"
.RB "Server name to use as database host. Default is " fsmi-db.fsmi.uni-karlsruhe.de
.TP
.BI --port " port"
.RB "Database port to be used. Default is " 5432
.TP
.BI --dbname " dbname"
.RB "Name of the Garfield database to use. Default is " garfield
.TP
.B --pgpass
.RI "If the users home directory contains a " .pgpass " file specifying credentials usable for the database"
connection, use those credentials. For documentation on the format of this file, see the postgresql documentation.
.TP
.B --verbose
Print background information on actions performed.
.TP
.B --version
Print tool version and exit.
.SH MODES
.TP
.B balance
Print the current account balance of the connecting user.
.TP
.BI history " length"
.RI "Print " length " items of account history for the connecting user. The default " length " is 10."
.TP
.BI deposit " amount"
.RI "Deposit " amount " into the connecting user's account. The tool will query the register the transaction"
is performed on via the standard input.
.TP
.BI withdraw " amount"
.RI "Withdraw " amount " from the connecting user's account. The tool will query the register the transaction"
is performed on via the standard input.
.TP
.BI "list [" id " | " name "]"
List users matching the ID or name.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to the projects issue tracker at https://github.com/kitinfo/garfield-shell/issues
.SH AUTHORS
 Jan "mpease" Duepmeier <me at mpease dot de>
 Fabian "cbdev" Stumpf <cb at cbcdn dot com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Project repository at https://github.com/kitinfo/garfield-shell/
